---
id: powerton
title: PowerTON
sidebar_label: PowerTON
---

## What is PowerTON?

PowerTON is a game to win the prize pool of unissued commit rewards. The purpose of PowerTON is to provide additional incentives to operate child chains on top of passive income that comes from staking and delegating.


## How it Works
PowerTON is a game where the winner is determined probabilistically in proportion to Power held. A winner comes out every round, and the duration of the round is $\alpha$ days. Power is a ticket to participate in PowerTON, which is only generated by staking or delegating TONs.

For every 1 TON that is staked (or delegated), 1 Power is issued. Power is immediately issued when a player stakes, and the same amount will be issued every round unless the player unstakes or stakes more. The Power issued is eligible for entry to the next round (N+1) of the game, and is only valid for the particular round. 

For example, assume that a player has staked 100 TON during round 10. The player will be immediately issued 100 Power and will be able to participate in round 11. If the player maintains the staked amount, he/she will continue to be given 100 Power for each round.

The winner for the round is determined probabilistically by the Power held by players at the end of each round. The next round begins as soon as the winner is determined.


### Withdrawal Restriction
There are no restrictions in amount or time of withdrawals when unstaking or undelegating TONs, except when the staker (or the delegator) participats in the PowerTON. Unstake (or undelegate) request will go through when the round is complete. Users can simply not participate in PowerTON to avoid such restrictions.

### Odds of Winning
For each round, odds of winning the round is calculated as follows:

$O = P / TP$

#### Notation
- $O$ : odds of winning
- $TP$ : total supply of power for each round
- $P$ : total amount of power held by a player for each round

## Prize
$\beta$% of unissued commit reward($S_y - s_y$) from staking will go into the prize pool. $\beta$% of unissued commit reward is reserved during each round, and the specific amount may vary depending on the circumstances, such as total TONs staked in the system.


### Distribution
At the end of the round, the prize will be distributed as follows. However, the specific distribution ratio is adjustable based on empirical analysis.

|Winner($r_{w}$)|Next Round($r_{n}$)|
|------|----------|
| 80%  |   20%    |


